template/README.md, before:

# MERN Auth Starter

This project was generated using `create-react-express-auth`.
It contains a fully functional MERN stack application with Authentication and Role-based Authorization.

## Project Structure

```
.
├── client/     # Frontend (React + Vite)
└── server/     # Backend (Node.js + Express + MongoDB)
```

## Getting Started

### 1. Setup Backend

Navigate to the server directory:

```bash
cd server
npm install
```

**Environment Variables:**

Rename `.env.example` to `.env`:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Open `.env` and:
1.  Set `MONGO_URI` to your MongoDB connection string (e.g., `mongodb://localhost:27017/mern-auth-db`).
2.  Set `JWT_SECRET` to a secure random string.

Start the server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

The server will run on `http://localhost:5000`.

### 2. Setup Frontend

Open a new terminal and navigate to the client directory:

```bash
cd client
npm install
```

Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

The client will run on `http://localhost:5173`.

## Features Guide

### Authentication
- Users can register and login.
- Tokens are stored in `localStorage`.
- `AuthContext` provides `user` object and auth methods globally.

### Roles & Authorization
- Default role for new users is `user`.
- To create an **Admin**:
  - You can manually update a user's role to `admin` in your MongoDB database.
  - Or modify the registration logic in `server/routes/auth.js`.
- **Protected Routes**:
  - `/dashboard`: Accessible by any logged-in user.
  - `/admin`: Accessible ONLY by users with `admin` role.

### API Requests
- Use the pre-configured axios instance in `client/src/api/axios.js`.
- It automatically attaches the JWT token to every request header.

## Deployment

### Backend
Deploy to platforms like Render, Railway, or Heroku. Remember to set your environment variables on the platform.

### Frontend
Deploy to Vercel or Netlify.
Build command: `npm run build`
Output directory: `dist`

Commit message:

Added Google Auth and testing is done in same file

template/README.md, after:

# MERN Auth Starter

This project was generated using `create-react-express-auth`.
It contains a fully functional MERN stack application with Authentication and Role-based Authorization.

## Project Structure

```
.
├── client/     # Frontend (React + Vite)
└── server/     # Backend (Node.js + Express + MongoDB)
```

## Getting Started

### 1. Setup Backend

Navigate to the server directory:

```bash
cd server
npm install
```

**Environment Variables:**

Rename `.env.example` to `.env`:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Open `.env` and:
1.  Set `MONGO_URI` to your MongoDB connection string (e.g., `mongodb://localhost:27017/mern-auth-db`).
2.  Set `JWT_SECRET` to a secure random string.

Start the server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

The server will run on `http://localhost:5000`.

### 3. Setup Google Auth & Email (Optional for development, required for features)

**Google Login:**
1.  Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).
2.  Create a project and setup OAuth Consent Screen.
3.  Create Credentials > OAuth Client ID (Web Application).
4.  Add `http://localhost:5173` to "Authorized JavaScript origins".
5.  Copy Client ID to `.env` (`GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`) in *both* server and client (Vite requires `VITE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` in `client/.env`).

**Forgot Password:**
1.  For development, use a Gmail account.
2.  Enable 2-Step Verification.
3.  Generate an [App Password](https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords).
4.  Add email and app password to `server/.env`.

### 2. Setup Frontend

Open a new terminal and navigate to the client directory:

```bash
cd client
npm install
```

Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

The client will run on `http://localhost:5173`.

## Features Guide

### Authentication
- Users can register and login.
- Tokens are stored in `localStorage`.
- `AuthContext` provides `user` object and auth methods globally.

### Roles & Authorization
- Default role for new users is `user`.
- To create an **Admin**:
  - You can manually update a user's role to `admin` in your MongoDB database.
  - Or modify the registration logic in `server/routes/auth.js`.
- **Protected Routes**:
  - `/dashboard`: Accessible by any logged-in user.
  - `/admin`: Accessible ONLY by users with `admin` role.

### API Requests
- Use the pre-configured axios instance in `client/src/api/axios.js`.
- It automatically attaches the JWT token to every request header.

## Deployment

### Backend
Deploy to platforms like Render, Railway, or Heroku. Remember to set your environment variables on the platform.

### Frontend
Deploy to Vercel or Netlify.
Build command: `npm run build`
Output directory: `dist`
